README.md, before:

# SRU (version 1) with CPU mode written in Cython

## About

**SRU** is a recurrent unit that can run over 10 times faster than cuDNN LSTM, without loss of accuracy tested on many tasks. 
<p align="center">
<img width=620 src="imgs/speed.png"><br>
<i>Average processing time of LSTM, conv2d and SRU, tested on GTX 1070</i><br>
</p>
For example, the figure above presents the processing time of a single mini-batch of 32 samples. SRU achieves 10 to 16 times speed-up compared to LSTM, and operates as fast as (or faster than) word-level convolution using conv2d. 

#### Reference:
[Training RNNs as Fast as CNNs](https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.02755)
```
@article{lei2017sru,
  title={Training RNNs as Fast as CNNs},
  author={Tao Lei, Yu Zhang and Yoav Artzi},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:1709.02755},
  year={2017}
}
```
<br>

## Requirements
 - **GPU and CUDA 8 are required**
 - [PyTorch](http://pytorch.org/)
 - [CuPy](https://cupy.chainer.org/)
 - [pynvrtc](https://github.com/NVIDIA/pynvrtc)
 
Install requirements via `pip install -r requirements.txt`. CuPy and pynvrtc needed to compile the CUDA code into a callable function at runtime. Only single GPU training is supported. 

<br>

## Installation
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
python setup.py build
python setup.py develop
```
or
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -e .
```

<br>

## Examples
The usage of SRU is similar to `nn.LSTM`. SRU likely requires more stacking layers than LSTM. We recommend starting by 2 layers and use more if necessary (see our report for more experimental details).
```python
import torch
from torch.autograd import Variable
from cuda_functional import SRU, SRUCell

# input has length 20, batch size 32 and dimension 128
x = Variable(torch.FloatTensor(20, 32, 128).cuda())

input_size, hidden_size = 128, 128

rnn = SRU(input_size, hidden_size,
    num_layers = 2,          # number of stacking RNN layers
    dropout = 0.0,           # dropout applied between RNN layers
    rnn_dropout = 0.0,       # variational dropout applied on linear transformation
    use_tanh = 1,            # use tanh?
    use_relu = 0,            # use ReLU?
    use_selu = 0,            # use SeLU?
    bidirectional = False,   # bidirectional RNN ?
    weight_norm = False,     # apply weight normalization on parameters
    layer_norm = False,      # apply layer normalization on the output of each layer
    highway_bias = 0         # initial bias of highway gate (<= 0)
)
rnn.cuda()

output_states, c_states = rnn(x)      # forward pass

# output_states is (length, batch size, number of directions * hidden size)
# c_states is (layers, batch size, number of directions * hidden size)

```
Make sure `cuda_functional.py` and the shared library `cuda/lib64` can be found by the system, e.g. 
```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/cuda/lib64
export PYTHONPATH=path_to_repo/sru
```
Instead of using `PYTHONPATH`, the SRU module now can be installed as a regular package via `python setup.py install` or `pip install`. See this [PR](https://github.com/taolei87/sru/pull/11).

<br>

 - [classification](/classification/)
 - [question answering (SQuAD)](/DrQA/)
 - [language modelling on PTB](/language_model/)
 - [speech recognition](/speech/) (**Note:** implemented in CNTK instead of PyTorch)
  - machine translation: SRU has been included in [OpenNMT-py](https://github.com/OpenNMT/OpenNMT-py) by [Jianyu Zhan](http://github.com/jianyuzhan) and [Sasha Rush](http://github.com/srush). Also thanks to [@jingxil](https://github.com/jingxil) for testing. See results [here](http://cnyah.com/2017/09/20/an-empirical-comparison-between-SRU-and-LSTM/).
  
<br>

## Contributors
https://github.com/taolei87/sru/graphs/contributors


### Other Implementations

[@musyoku](https://github.com/musyoku) had a very nice [SRU implementaion](https://github.com/musyoku/chainer-sru) in chainer.

[@adrianbg](https://github.com/adrianbg) implemented the [CPU version](https://github.com/taolei87/sru/pull/42).

<br>

## To-do
  - [x] ReLU activation
  - [x] support multi-GPU via `nn.DataParallel` (see example [here](/misc/test_multigpu.py))
  - [x] layer normalization
  - [x] weight normalization
  - [x] SeLU activation
  - [ ] residual
  - [ ] support packed sequence

Commit message:

Change the package name to oldsru (#1)

README.md, after:

# SRU (version 1) with CPU mode written in Cython and old initialization


## About

**SRU** is a recurrent unit that can run over 10 times faster than cuDNN LSTM, without loss of accuracy tested on many tasks. 
<p align="center">
<img width=620 src="imgs/speed.png"><br>
<i>Average processing time of LSTM, conv2d and SRU, tested on GTX 1070</i><br>
</p>
For example, the figure above presents the processing time of a single mini-batch of 32 samples. SRU achieves 10 to 16 times speed-up compared to LSTM, and operates as fast as (or faster than) word-level convolution using conv2d. 

#### Reference:
[Training RNNs as Fast as CNNs](https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.02755)
```
@article{lei2017sru,
  title={Training RNNs as Fast as CNNs},
  author={Tao Lei, Yu Zhang and Yoav Artzi},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:1709.02755},
  year={2017}
}
```
<br>

## Requirements
 - **GPU and CUDA 8 are required**
 - [PyTorch](http://pytorch.org/)
 - [CuPy](https://cupy.chainer.org/)
 - [pynvrtc](https://github.com/NVIDIA/pynvrtc)
 
Install requirements via `pip install -r requirements.txt`. CuPy and pynvrtc needed to compile the CUDA code into a callable function at runtime. Only single GPU training is supported. 

<br>

## Installation
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
python setup.py build
python setup.py develop
```
or
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -e .
```
This will install a package `oldsru` which contains two classes `oldsru.SRU` and `oldsru.SRUCell`.


<br>

## Examples
The usage of SRU is similar to `nn.LSTM`. SRU likely requires more stacking layers than LSTM. We recommend starting by 2 layers and use more if necessary (see our report for more experimental details).
```python
import torch
from torch.autograd import Variable
from oldsru import SRU, SRUCell

# input has length 20, batch size 32 and dimension 128
x = Variable(torch.FloatTensor(20, 32, 128).cuda())

input_size, hidden_size = 128, 128

rnn = SRU(input_size, hidden_size,
    num_layers = 2,          # number of stacking RNN layers
    dropout = 0.0,           # dropout applied between RNN layers
    rnn_dropout = 0.0,       # variational dropout applied on linear transformation
    use_tanh = 1,            # use tanh?
    use_relu = 0,            # use ReLU?
    use_selu = 0,            # use SeLU?
    bidirectional = False,   # bidirectional RNN ?
    weight_norm = False,     # apply weight normalization on parameters
    layer_norm = False,      # apply layer normalization on the output of each layer
    highway_bias = 0         # initial bias of highway gate (<= 0)
)
rnn.cuda()

output_states, c_states = rnn(x)      # forward pass

# output_states is (length, batch size, number of directions * hidden size)
# c_states is (layers, batch size, number of directions * hidden size)

```
Make sure `cuda_functional.py` and the shared library `cuda/lib64` can be found by the system, e.g. 
```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/cuda/lib64
export PYTHONPATH=path_to_repo/sru
```
Instead of using `PYTHONPATH`, the SRU module now can be installed as a regular package via `python setup.py install` or `pip install`. See this [PR](https://github.com/taolei87/sru/pull/11).

<br>

 - [classification](/classification/)
 - [question answering (SQuAD)](/DrQA/)
 - [language modelling on PTB](/language_model/)
 - [speech recognition](/speech/) (**Note:** implemented in CNTK instead of PyTorch)
  - machine translation: SRU has been included in [OpenNMT-py](https://github.com/OpenNMT/OpenNMT-py) by [Jianyu Zhan](http://github.com/jianyuzhan) and [Sasha Rush](http://github.com/srush). Also thanks to [@jingxil](https://github.com/jingxil) for testing. See results [here](http://cnyah.com/2017/09/20/an-empirical-comparison-between-SRU-and-LSTM/).
  
<br>

## Contributors
https://github.com/taolei87/sru/graphs/contributors


### Other Implementations

[@musyoku](https://github.com/musyoku) had a very nice [SRU implementaion](https://github.com/musyoku/chainer-sru) in chainer.

[@adrianbg](https://github.com/adrianbg) implemented the [CPU version](https://github.com/taolei87/sru/pull/42).

<br>

## To-do
  - [x] ReLU activation
  - [x] support multi-GPU via `nn.DataParallel` (see example [here](/misc/test_multigpu.py))
  - [x] layer normalization
  - [x] weight normalization
  - [x] SeLU activation
  - [ ] residual
  - [ ] support packed sequence
